Ankle-Idon. The gliding joint between the end of the tibia and fibula

Bag-Jaka. A container with single opening

Banana-Ayaba. Any of several tropical and subtropical treelike herb of the genus Musa having a Terminal crown of large entire leaves and brings cluster of elongated fruit

Baobab-Kuka. monkeyy-beard tree

Bean-Wake.edible seed of plant used as food

Beauty-kyau.the quality that gives pleasure to the senses

Bed-Gado. A piece of furniture that provides a place to sleep

Beeds-Jigida. A type of accessory worn on the neck,hands or legs

Black-Baki. Black color

Husband - Miji. A married man.

Wife - Mata. A married woman

Church - Coci. A place of public worship for Christians

Mosque - Masallaci. A place of worship for Muslims

Meat - Nama. A flesh of Animal used as food

Cow - Shanu. Female of domestic cattle.

Goat - Akuya.

Bottle-Kwalba.a glass or plastic vessel used for storing drinks or other liquids

Boy-Yaro. A male human offspring

Breast-Nono.front of the trunk from neck to abdomen

Cement-Sumunti.concrete

Chest-Kirji. Front of the trunk from neck to abdomen

Chicken-Kaza.a flesh of chicken used as food

Class-Aji. A hall where students converge for lectures

Clothes-Kaya. Dress

Coconut-Kwakwa.edible white meat of a coconut

Comb-MaTsefe. A flat device used to detangle or arrange hair

Cook-Girki. The process of preparing a meal

Cream-Manshafawa. Am ointment or cream for keep the skin moisturise 

Date-Dabbino. A fruit which is usually yellow or brown.

Dirt-Datti.the state of being covered with unclean things

Door-Kofa.a sliding barrier that will close the entrance to a room or vehicle

Ear-Kunne. The sense organ for hearing(singular)

Ears-Kunnuwa.the sense organ for hearing(plural)

Examination-Jarrabawa. The act of examing something or testing.

Eyebrow-Gira. The arch of hair above each eye

Eyelash-Gashin ido. Short curved hair that grows on the edge of the eyelid

Eyes-Idanu.the organ of sight

Face-Fuska. The front of the human head from the forehead to the chin and ear to ear

Fan-Fanka. A device for creating a current of air

Father-Uba.a male parent

Finger-Yatsa. Terminal member of the hand

Food-Abinci. Any substance that can be metabolised by an animal to give enery

Girl-Yarinya. A female human offspring

Green-Mai ruwan ganye. Green color

Groundnut oil-mangyeda.an oil from groundnut
Groundnut-Gyeda.edible tubers
Hair-Gashi.threadlike structures that covers the body
Handa-Hannu. The superior limb
Henna-Lalli.a reddish brown dye
Hip-Kwatangwalo. Either side of the body from below the waist to above the thigh
House-Gida.a dwelling that serves as living quaters for one or more families.
Jaw-Mu amu i. The part of the skull that holds the teeths and holds the mouth
Knee-Gwiwa. Hinge joint in the leg that connects the tibia and fibula
Knife-Wuka. Edge tool used for cutting
Leg-Kafa.the human limb
Light-Wuta.visible radiation
Lips-Lebe. Two fleshy folds of tissues that surrounds the mouth
Love-Soyayya.to have a great affection
Maize-Masara.tall annual cereal grass bearing kernels on large ears
Market-Kasuwa. A place for buying and selling
Meat-Nama.a flesh of animal used as food
Mirror-Madubi.a polished surface that forms image by reflecting light
Morsel-Tuwo.a solid food
Mother-Uwa. A female parent
Mouth-Baki.the opening through which food is taken in and vocalization emerges
Mud-laka.soil with mud
Nail-Kusa.the part of the body that covers and protects the dorsal surface of the digits
Nose-Hanci.the organ of smell
Notebook-littafi. A book with blank pages for recording notes.
Okra-Kubewa.long green edible beaked pods of okra plant
Orang-Lemu. Round yellow to orange fruit of several citrus trees
Perfume-Turare. Colonge 
Pillow-Matashin kai.a cushion to support the head
Pineapple-Abarba. A large fleshy edible friut with a terminal tuft of stiff leaves and
Plait-Kitso. Weave into plaits
Radio-Rediyo.medium for communication
Red oil-manja. A red greasy substance gotten from palm kernel which is used for cooking
Red-ja. Red color
Rice-Shinkafa.grain used as food
Ring-Zobe.a type of assocery worn on the finger
School-Makaranta.an educational institute
Shoe-Takalmi. Footwear
Short-Gajere. Limited in duration of height or low in stature
Sibling-Yan Uwa. A person's brother or sister
Soap-Sabulu.a cleansing agent
Soup-Miya.liquid food
Spaghetti-Taliya. Pasta
Spinash-Alayyahu. Succulent edible dark green leaves
Sponge-Soso. A fiber used for cleansing
Staircase-Bene. A way of access consisting of set of steps
Stomach-Ciki.the principle organ for digestion
Tall-Dogo. High in stature
Teeth-Hakora. hard bonelike structures located at the jaw for bitting and chewing and for Attack and defense
Television-Talabijin. Broadcasting visual images of objects
Thigh-Cinya. The part of the leg between the hip and the knee
Tigernut-Aya.a type of fruit
Toes-Yatsu. The digits of the foot
Tongue-Harshe. The organ of taste
Toothbrush-Buroshin hakori. A brush Used to clean the teeth
Towel-Tawul.an absorbent cloth for drying
Trouser-Wando.a garment extending from the waist to the knee or ankle
Veil-Gyale. A piece of clothing used to cover the body
Waist-Kugu. part of the body between the ribs and hips
Wall-Bango. Used to divide or enclose an area.
Water-Ruwa. A colorless, odourless and tasteless liguid
Watermelon-Kankana.an African melon
White-Fari. White color
Wrapper-Zani.cloak the is wrapper around a person
Yam-Doya.edible tuber of yams
head tie-dankwali. A piece of clothing used for tieing or covering the head
